What is OSQA? OSQA is…
----------------------


-  the ‘Open Source Question and Answer’ system
-  a way to connect people to the information they’re looking for
-  software that’s distributed for free under the terms of the
   `GNU General Public Licence (GPL) <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>`_
-  written in Python and powered by the Django application
   framework
-  brought to you by the folks at
   `DZone\* <http://www.dzone.com>`_, the home of one of the web’s
   biggest software developer communities

What features does OSQA have and what can I do with it?
-------------------------------------------------------

At its very core, OSQA is a social question and answer system.
However, OSQA’s
`roadmap <http://jira.osqa.net/browse/OSQA>`_ includes features and
functions that extend its usefulness beyond just a Q&A site. Those
features include:


-  A question and answer engine that’s dead simple to use, has
   wiki-like features and a voting system
-  A social networking engine that allows you to connect with and
   follow other people and topics and send private messages to each
   other
-  A reputation system that lets you give and receive props for
   positive contributions to the community
-  A powerful search function that helps you find relevant
   information quickly and easily
-  The ability to create groups to help narrow content focus
-  The ability to export site data
-  The ability to easily federate content that’s created on your
   site (federating content = reusing content generated on one of your
   sites in another)
-  The ability to import data from your current or old Stack
   Exchange site
-  Support for widgets to expand functionality
-  Automatic site activity reports
-  The ability to customize your site using themes
-  The ability to embed videos, audio and images

When all these features and functions are incorporated, the OSQA
platform will be powerful enough that you can create virtually
anything that your mind can conjure! Potential uses for OSQA
include:


-  An online forum
-  Your company’s support platform
-  A new-age blogging platform
-  A basic project collaboration platform
-  A wiki platform
-  A mini-social network (think social networks for clubs,
   families, etc. to keep in touch, and share information and news)
-  A simple Content Management System (CMS)
-  A basic Q&A site about any topic (naturally!)

How do I start a site using OSQA?
---------------------------------

There are two ways you can create an OSQA site:


-  Register with one of our hosting partners who may be able to
   help you set up and host your OSQA site
-  Download the installer package and host it yourself or with your
   preferred host (more permanent solution)

Who is DZone?
-------------

DZone is a technology publishing company that produces valuable
content and resources for the software development community. We
started off life as Javalobby, a grassroots developer community and
have grown to reach over 2.3M software developers and architects
every month.

Why did DZone create OSQA?
--------------------------

DZone created the OSQA platform to power some new sites that we
will launch soon.

Why are you giving OSQA away for free?
--------------------------------------

We strongly believe in the ‘OS’ in OSQA and in giving back to the
community that has helped us grow into what we are, so we’re
providing the software to anyone who wants to use it for free.
